%--------------------------------------------------------------------
%\chapter{Example Section}
%--------------------------------------------------------------------

%%% Local Variables: 
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../D1-2"
%%% End: 

%\subsection*{Geographical Data and Social Media}

Nowadays, the means of public transportation become equipped with
physical sensors like GPS sensors or light barriers. Those sensors are
used to keep track of the current vehicle position or to estimate the
number of passengers. But those sensors do not detect, for instance,
emergencies, accidents or the passengers' opinions on bus lines. To
overcome these limitations, another kind of sensors is required.

In the last decade, many social networks or micro-blogging services
like Twitter\texttrademark arose. They are frequently used by humans
to publish their opinions, observations, etc. which then can be
requested by a web API. Therefore, the users of those services can be
seen as social sensors. The increasing number of mobile phones leads
to a situation in which more and more passengers become social sensors
by publishing statements about crowded buses or rioting passengers.

The evaluation of the social sensor data requires that the bus or
train can be identified to which a message is related. This task is
simplified by the fact that most mobile phones have integrated GPS
sensors. They measure the current geographical position, which is
added to the published message together with a timestamp. This
position information can be used to identify the nearest train or
bus. A more detailed description of this matching problem will be
given in the next section.

The amount of data produced by the different types of sensors can
exceed the processing capabilities of a single computer. Therefore, a
distributed approach is required, which will be explained in section
\ref{sec:approach}.

\subsection{Problem of Matching Physical and Social Sensor Data}\label{sec:problem}

In order to find the bus or train a message is related to, the data
measured by the physical sensors have to be processed first. In this
context, the relevant data consists of the longitude and latitude
($\mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R}$) measured by the GPS sensors of the
vehicles. Before transmitting these data, they have to be extended by
the unique id ($V_{id}$) of the current vehicle and a timestamp ($T$)
to keep track of the chronological order. The set of all possible
position is defined as $Pos$ in equation (\ref{eqn:Pos}).

\vspace*{-2\baselineskip}
\begin{eqnarray}
 Pos & := & V_{id} \times T \times \mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R}\label{eqn:Pos}
\end{eqnarray}

The relevant data of the social sensors are the messages published by
the passengers. Each message contains a timestamp, i.e., the
publishing time and the GPS position of the mobile phone from which
the message was sent. The set of all possible messages $Mes$ is
defined in equation (\ref{eqn:Mes}) where $C$ is the set of all
possible message contents.

\vspace*{-2\baselineskip}
\begin{eqnarray}
 Mes & := & T \times \mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R} \times C\label{eqn:Mes}
\end{eqnarray}

The data of the different sensors are transmitted as a not necessarily
finite stream of data as defined in the equations
(\ref{eqn:posStream}) and (\ref{eqn:mesStream}).

\vspace*{-2\baselineskip}
\begin{eqnarray}
 posStream: &  & \mathbb{N} \rightarrow Pos\label{eqn:posStream}\\
 mesStream: &  & \mathbb{N} \rightarrow Mes\label{eqn:mesStream}
\end{eqnarray}

The range of $posStream$, i.e., the set of vehicle positions received
by the data stream $posStream$ are the trajectories of the different
vehicles. A trajectory is defined in equation (\ref{eqn:traj}) as a
discrete function mapping some point in time to a geographical
position.

\vspace*{-2\baselineskip}
\begin{eqnarray}
 traj: & & T \mapsto \mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R}\label{eqn:traj}
\end{eqnarray}

But this definition is not adequate because the timestamps of messages
may vary from the timestamps contained in the position data of the
vehicles. Therefore, a continuous trajectory function $\widehat{traj}$
is required. This is reached by, for instance, a linear interpolation
of $traj$.

Equation (\ref{eqn:allTraj}) shows the function $allTraj$ which maps
the unique identifier of a vehicle on its corresponding continuous
trajectory.

\vspace*{-2\baselineskip}
\begin{eqnarray}
 allTraj: & & V_{id} \mapsto (T \mapsto \mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R})\label{eqn:allTraj}
\end{eqnarray}

In order to relate a message $m$ to a bus or train, the vehicle must
be determined which has the smallest euclidean distance $dist$ to the
position of the sender at the point in time when $m$ was
sent. Furthermore, a vehicle has a maximum length $maxDist$ and all
vehicles with a greater distance from $m$ can be ignored. Thus, each
message can be seen as a range nearest-neighbour query $rnn$ as
defined in equation (\ref{eqn:rnn}).

\vspace*{-2\baselineskip}
\begin{eqnarray}
  &&rnn: Mes \rightarrow Pos \cup \{\texttt{null}\} \textrm{ with}\label{eqn:rnn}\\
  &&rnn((t,lon_m,lat_m,cont)):= (v_{Id},t,lon_v,lat_v)\nonumber\\
  &&\hspace*{1cm}\textrm{if } allTraj(v_{Id})(t)=(lon_v,lat_v) \wedge dist((lon_m,lat_m),(lon_v,lat_v))\leq maxDist \wedge \nonumber\\
  &&\hspace*{1cm}\not\exists v_{Id}' \in V_{id}: dist((lon_m,lat_m),allTraj(v_{Id}')(t))< dist((lon_m,lat_m),allTraj(v_{Id})(t))\nonumber\\
  &&rnn((t,lon_m,lat_m,cont)):= \texttt{null}\nonumber\\
  &&\hspace*{1cm}\textrm{otherwise}\nonumber
\end{eqnarray}

Putting it all together, the problem of finding the nearest vehicle
for each message is defined as followed:

{
\definecolor{mygray}{gray}{.75}
\fbox{\colorbox{mygray}{\parbox{\columnwidth}{
\textbf{Problem} Finding range nearest vehicle for each message\\
\textbf{Input:} $posStream$, $mesStream$, $maxDist$\\
\textbf{Output:} $rnnStream: \mathbb{N} \rightarrow Mes \times Pos \bullet rnnStream(i):=(mesStream(i),rnn(mesStream(i)))$
}}}
}

An implementation which solves this problem has to deal with the fact,
that the data received by different sensors are not equally
delayed. For instance, the data measured from physical sensors may be
faster transmitted then messages received from social networks.

Another difficulty is, that the amount of data received by the
different input streams may exceed the processing capabilities of a
single computer. One solution for this problem would be to discard
incoming data if the load of the single machine would be to high. This
could lead to the loss of valuable data. In order to avoid this, a
distributed approach is required which scales horizontally.

Some approaches like PLACE* \cite{Xiong2007PAD} distribute the
incoming data according to a static mapping of computers on
geographical regions. The disadvantage of this static mapping can be
seen, for instance, if there exists a sport stadium in some region. If
a sport event takes place, then there are many vehicles and passengers
producing a huge amount of data. Therefore, the corresponding computer
can only deal with a relatively small region. But if no event takes
place, this computer has almost nothing to do. In order to improve
this, the mapping has to be dynamic, i.e., a dynamic load balancing is
required.

\subsection{Distributed Geo-Matching Approach}\label{sec:approach}

The schema of an intuitive stream-processing system which solves the
problem described above can be seen in
Figure~\ref{subfig:localRtree}. It consists of a single component
($C$) which receives the incoming data streams of vehicle positions
and messages. It caches the current positions and processes the range
nearest-neighbour queries initiated by the received messages. The
answers are transmitted via the outgoing data stream $rnnStream$.

In order to answer range nearest-neighbour queries, $C$ has to cache
the current position of all vehicles. The problem of the delayed
sensor data requires the caching of more vehicle positions than just
the latest. Thus, a sliding window approach is implemented with a
window size exceeding all regular delay times. This is realized by
deleting all vehicle positions outside the window whenever a new
position with a timestamp later then the timestamp of the latest
cached position is received.

The data structure used as cache should answer range nearest-neighbour
queries efficiently. In spatio-temporal databases R*-trees
\cite{Beckmann1990TRA} are used for this purpose. Similar to a B-tree,
the inserted elements are stored only in the leafs. Each node except
the root has a minimal and a maximal number of children or
elements. If an insertion is performed on a node already containing
the maximal number of elements, then it is split and the resulting
inner node is inserted in the parent node. In contrast to B-trees,
each node of an R*-tree represents the minimal bounding rectangle
(MBR) of all elements contained in its subtree as illustrated in
Figure~\ref{fig:Rtree}. The presented tree consists of a root node
(dark gray), seven leafs (light gray) and several vehicle positions
(black squares).

\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\includegraphics[scale=0.3,angle=90]{img/dgm/rTree.pdf}
\caption{An examplary R*-tree}\label{fig:Rtree}
\end{figure}

During the processing of a range nearest-neighbour query, only the
children of a node are visited whose MBR intersects with the queried
range. Thus, the performance of the query processing depends on the
number of subtrees to be traversed. In order to reduce this number,
the MBRs of the child nodes should be disjoint. As shown in
\cite{Beckmann1990TRA} the algorithms used for insertion and deletion
are designed to ensure a minimal overlap of MBRs. Another advantage
is, that the MBRs are dynamically adjusted according to the currently
contained elements.

\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\subfigure[A system with a single cache]{
\label{subfig:localRtree}
\includegraphics[scale=0.6]{img/dgm/SingleCache.pdf} 
}
\subfigure[A system with several caches]{
\label{subfig:rootRtree}
\includegraphics[scale=0.6]{img/dgm/MultiCache.pdf} 
}
\subfigure[A distributed R*-tree]{
\label{subfig:distributedRtree}
\includegraphics[scale=0.6]{img/dgm/DistributedTree.pdf} 
}
\caption{Distributing a geo-matching system}\label{fig:DistributedRtree}
\end{figure}

The problem of the system shown in Figure~\ref{subfig:localRtree} is
that its processing capabilities are quite limited. Therefore, a
distributed approach is required which spreads the load on several
computers. Figure~\ref{subfig:rootRtree} shows such a system. It
consists of several caches $C_0$ to $C_n$ each of them owning an own
R*-tree for caching current vehicle positions and responding to
queries.

Furthermore, this system consists of balancer component $B$. It
receives the incoming streams of vehicle positions and messages and
decides to which of the different caches each single datum is
sent. Similar to the root of an R*-tree, it keeps track of the MBRs of
the different caches. A new vehicle position is basically sent to the
cache with the nearest MBR. If $B$ receives a new message, it is only
forwarded to the caches whose MBR intersects with the queried
range. In the best case this is only one cache. But it could be
several caches as well. Thus a special combiner component ($\Sigma$)
is required which receives the nearest vehicle of each cache involved
in the query processing and returns the overall nearest neighbour.

A further responsibility of $B$ is the load balancing, i.e., the
number of cached vehicle positions and queries in progress should be
similar for all caches. Therefore, $B$ counts the number of vehicle
positions and messages forwarded to the different caches. The load
balancing is done by distributing the received vehicle positions
according to special target ranges for the different caches. In the
case of a balanced system, these regions are equal to the MBRs. But if
the load of a cache $C_i$ exceeds the load of a cache $C_j$ with a
neighboured MBR, than the target range of $C_i$ is reduced and the
range of $C_j$ increased. During the progress of the sliding window
the MBRs of the caches will approach their target ranges.

In regular intervals, $B$ sends special requests to all caches to send
the information about their current loads and MBRs back (not shown in
Figure~\ref{subfig:rootRtree}). If $B$ receives the responses of all
caches, it updates its calculated values. These update requests are
performed asynchronously, i.e., the distribution of the incoming data
is not blocked. This leads to a situation where the information
received by the caches are not up to date any more. Therefore, $B$
caches all forwarding decisions from the time the updated request is
sent until all caches have responded. Then these decisions are applied
on the received load information and MBRs.

The disadvantage of this system is, that the single balancer component
$B$ and combiner component $\Sigma$ can become bottlenecks. A future
solution could be found when thinking of $B$ as the root of a
distributed R*-tree whose children are the trees stored in the
different caches. If it is close to its processing limits, it creates
child balancer components which are responsible for subregions of the
overall MBR. Each of the children get an input stream for all the data
of its MBR. Data for regions which are not covered by the children are
still received by the root. Whenever a balancer component is split,
the combiner components are split analogously. Such a system is
illustrated in Figure~\ref{subfig:distributedRtree}.
